## Creating a new event

### Story
As an application user
I want to be able to create new events manually
So I can have event's I'm aware of added to my calendar.

As an API consumer
I want to be able to create new resources of a given type
So I can produce content.

### Usage
```javascript
var event = {
    "@context": "/api/context.jsonld",
    "@type": "schema:Event",
    "eventName": "My brand new event",
    "eventDescription": "Hope it will work",
    "startDate": "2017-04-19",
    "endDate": "2017-04-19"
};
var client = new HydraClient();
var operation = client.get("http://example.com")
    .getApiDocumentation()
    .getEntryPoint()
    .getLink('http://example.com/vocab#events')
    .getOperationOfType('http://schema.org/CreateAction');
client.invoke(operation, event);
```

### Details
The application has to be aware of how it can create a new resource.
It could get that information either from the API documentation or entry point
or last response's hypermedia controls. It also have to understand the type
of resource in scope (unless it is provided from outside of the application,
i.e. pass-through import from external data source).

Anyway, assuming all the requirements are met, a request would look like this:

```http
POST /api/events
```

```json
{
    "@context": "/api/context.jsonld",
    "@type": "schema:Event",
    "eventName": "My brand new event",
    "eventDescription": "Hope it will work",
    "startDate": "2017-04-19",
    "endDate": "2017-04-19"
}
```

```http
HTTP 201 Created
Location: /api/events/2
```

Brand new event should be now added to the calendar.

### Considerations

#### Protocol agnostic specification
While the most popular protocol in use is currently HTTP, ReST API can be implemented
on top of other protocols. The example above has a weakneses of being strictly bound to
HTTP by referring to HTTP POST method. This has also another weaknes - server may also
allow to create resources using HTTP PUT, or it may go event further - it can forbid
the POST method in favour of PUT.
Specification could be protocol agnostic and give some hints on the logical functions
of the operations. Possible solution could be to use i.e. schema.org actions, but
without specification being clear about that, using schema.org actions is just one of
possible solutions. There is nothing against using other vocabularies causing the HyDrA  
Core Vocabylary to be prone to dialects and variations.
This leads to another weakneses - first thoughs can go in the CRUD direction, but these
are not the only approaches available in the wilderness (not to mention that there are
voices that put using CRUD in ReST API to question).

#### Creating user interfaces
It is common that rich UI applications allows their users to create/edit resources
via some forms full of inputs, lists etc. The question is - how these should be created.

The easiest approach is to hard-code these in the application. Well, if the application
knows how to handle resources of type *Event*, it would have some of the logic
and views already prepared. The issue here is that it somehow puts the whole idea of
meta-data to question. If we have tools to fully drive the client, why not use them?

Another, slightly better solution would be to embed some of that logic within the
hypermedia controls. This is what happens when an HTML page has JavaScripts, CSS's and
HTML forms embedded - client receives extra stuff to be used to show the form so it
sends the resource back to the server. In our case though, it somehow puts on to our
API a burden of being aware of the client UI capabilities, which seems to be a dead end.

Ultimate solution would be to give the client all the details possible about the resource
itself, it's structure, data types etc., so the client can use these on it's own.

We need to mention also a hybrid-like solution for non-UI applications. Server side
could provide a *template* of a resource to be filled with data. Still, the client would
need some more details so the template receives correct values.
